7.1 Assignment and Dispatching
====

### 7.1.1 Assignment

- In assignment, it is allowed to have `supertype s = subtype`, for example
	- Assume `Poly` is the supertype, and `DensePoly` and `SparsePoly` is its subtype, then we allow
	``` java
	Poly p1 = new DensePoly(); //the zero poly
	Poly p2 = new SparsePoly(3,20); //the Poly 3x^20
	```
- Actual type v.s. Apparent type
	- apparent type: what the compiler see. e.g. for p1, its type is Poly
	- actual type: the actual type. e.g., for p1, its type is DensePoly
	
- The goal of compiler checking: is to ensure that when a method call is executed, the object actually has a method with the appropriate signature. 

### 7.1.2 Dispatching
- Purpose: calling the right method is achieved by a runtime mechanism called **dispatching**
	- The compiler may not be able to determine what code to run when a method is called. The code to run depends on the **actual** type of the object, while compiler only knows the apparent type.
	
- Compiler
	- the compiler does not generate code to call the method directly. Instead, it generates code to find the method's code and then **branch** to it.

- Implement dispatching
	- have object contains: instance variable, a pointer to dispatch vector, which contains pointers to the implementations of the object's methods. 
	
### Summary
- The compiler deduces an apparent type for each object by using the information in variable and method declarations
- Each object has an **actual** type that it receives when it is **created**; this is the type defined by the class that constructs it
- The compiler ensure the apparent type it deduces for an object is always a supertype of the actual type of the object
- The compiler determines what calls are legal based on the object's apparent type
- Dispatching causes method calls to go to the object's actual code-- that is, the code provide by its class
