Objects and Variables
=====================

### Local Variables
- What? 
	- Those defined within methods.
- Where?
	- Space is allocated for them when the method is called and deallocated when the method returns.
- Values(Primitive types)
	- include int, boolean, and char
	- e.g. `int i=6`
- Objects
	- include strings, arrays, they contain references to object that reside in the heap
		- e.g. `int[] a= new int[3]`, space for a new array of integer object, with room for three integers will be allocated on the heap, and a reference to the new object will be stored in a
	- if the expression evaluates to a reference to an object, the reference is copied
		- e.g. s is an object, `t=s`, then t and s will point to the same object. This assignment involving reference to share object.

### 2.3.1 Mutability
- Mutable: an object is mutable if its state can change. For example, array are mutable. Example
	- let `b` and `a` share array
	```
		int[] a = {1, 3, 5, 7, 9};
		int[] b = new int[3];
		b = a;
	```
	- mute the array by b, `b[0]=i'
	- then we get `a[0]` equals `i`
- Immutable: an object is immutable if its state never changes. For example, string are immutable.
	- An object is shared by two variables if it can be accessed through either of them.
	- If a mutable object is shared by two variables, modifications made through one of the variables will be visible when the object is used through the other
	
### Method Call Semantics
- Call by value
- Call by reference(`#TODO`): if an actual parameter value is a reference to an object, that reference is assigned to the formal. 
	- This means the called procedure share the same objects with the caller. 
	- Furthermore, if the objects are mutable, and the called procedure changes their state, these changes are visible to the caller when it returns.
	- Example: the following modification will be visible to the caller b
	```
	public static void multiples(int[] a, int m)
	{
		if(a==null) return;
		for(int i=0; i<a.length; i++) a[i]=a[i]*m;
	}
	
	int[] b = {1,3,5,7,9};
	Arrays.multiples(b,2);
	```
		
