Type Checking
=============

### Definition
- Java is a strongly typed language, the Java compiler checks the code to ensure that every assignment and every call is type correct. 
- **Type safefy** is achieved by three mechanisms
	- compile-time type checking
	- automatic storage management
	- array bounds checking
- *apparent type*: is the type understood by the compiler from information available in declarations. 
- *actual type*: is the real type, i.e. the type it receives when created.
- Java guarantee the apparent type of any expression is a supertype of its actual type.
	
### 2.4.1 Type Hierarchy
- **Supertype**: type hierarchy provides a way of abstracting from the differences among subtypes to their common behavior, which is captured by their supertype.
- **Subtype**: the subtype relation is transitive.
- Java enforce *subtype* to have the same methods that *supertype* have. However, it does not enforce the methods call to behave in the same way. Because it beyond the abilities of a compiler. 
- **Object**
	- at the top of the type hierarchy in Java; all object types, including String and array types, are subtype of this type
	- it includes `equals` and `toString`, with the following header
	``` java
		boolean equals(Object o)
		String toString()
	```
	- `v=e` is legal, if v is a supertype, e is a subtype
	- **casting**: the use of cast causes a check to occur at runtime; if check succeeds, the indicated computation is allowed, and otherwise, the *ClassCastException* will be raised. 
		-e.g. `o1` is object type, `s` is String type
	``` java
	s = o1; //illegal
	s = (String)o1; //legal
	```

### 2.4.2 Conversions and Overloading
- **Implicit conversion**
	- Java allow certain implicit conversion of a value of one type to a value of another type, involve only *primitive* types. 
		- e.g. Java allows chars to be *widened* to numeric types
		``` java
		char c = 'a';
		int n = c;
		```
- **Overloading**
	- there can be several method definitions with the same name. 
	- For a call, several methods may be available at the same time. In this case, we use the "most specific" one. If there is no **"most specific"** one, a compile time error occurs. 
	``` java
	static int comp(int, long) //defn. 1
	static float comp(long, int) //defn. 2
	static int comp(long, long) //defn. 3
	int x; long y; float z;
	
	C.comp(x,y); //both defn.1 and 3 are suitable, but defn.1 is more specific
	C.comp(x,x); //error, not definition is "most specific"
	``` 
	- Overloading decisions also take into account asignments from sub-to-supertypes, e.g. `S` is a subtype of `T`, `e` is a variable of type S
	``` java
	void foo(T a, int x); //defn. 1
	void foo(S b, long y); //defn. 2
	
	C.foo(e,3); //error, since neither definition is *most specific*
	```
