6.1 Iteration in Java
===

- ### Iterator and Generator
	- An **iterator** is a procedure that returns a generator. A data abstraction can have one or more iterator methods, and there can also be standalone iterators.
	- A **generator** is an object that produces the elements used in the iteration. It has methods to get the next element and to determine whether there are any more elements. The generator's type is a subtype of Iterator.
	- The **specification** of an iterator defines the behavior of the generator; a generator has no specification of its own. The iterator specification often includes a requires clauses at the end constraining the code that users the generator.
	
- Iterator: Java does not provide direct support for iteration abstraction. Instead, we will provide iteration by a special kind of procedure, which we refer to as an **iterator**.

- ###g enerator
	- Definition: an iterator returns a special kind of data object called a generator. A generator keeps track of the state of an iteration in its rep.
	- It has a `hasNext` method that can be used to determine whether more elements remain to be produced
	- and a `next` method to get the next element, note in the specification, it mentioned **MODIFIES** the state
	- all generators belong to types that are `subtypes` of the `Iterator` interface, which is defined by `java,util` package
	- `NoSuchElementException` is an unchecked exception because of the expectation that most users of a generator will avoid causing the exception to be raised
	``` java
	//Specification of Iterator Interace
	public interface Iterator{
		public boolean hasNext();
			//EFFECTS: Returns true if there are more elements to yield
			// else return false
		public Object next() throws NoSuchElementException;
			//MODIFIES: this
			//EFFECTS: If there are more results to yield, return the next result
			// and modifies the state of this to record the yield
			// Otherwise, throws NoSuchException
	}
	```

- ### Using generators
	- loop controlled by `hasNext` or by exception
	``` java
	//loop controlled by hasNext
	Iterator g = primsLT100();
	while(g.hasNext()){
		int x = ((Integer) g.next).intValue();
		//use x
	}
	
	//loop controlled by exception
	Iterator g = primsLT100();
	try{
		while(true){
			int x = ((Integer) g.next()).intValue();
			//use x
		}
	} catch(NoSuchElementException e){}
	```
