5.7 Reasoning about Data Abstracitons
===

- How to show that an implementation preserves the rep invariant, i.e., ensures the invariant is true for an object whenever it is being used outside of its class

- ### Reasoning about data abstraction
	- **Data type induction** is used to reason about whether an implementation preserves the rep invariant. For each operation, we assume the rep invariant holds for any inputs of the type, and show it hold at return for any inputs of the type and any new objects of the type.
	- To prove the correctness of an operation, we make use of the abstraction function to relate the abstract objects mentioned in its specification to the concrete objects that represent them.
	- Data type induction is also used to reason about abstract invariants. However, in this case, the reasoning is based on the specification, and observers can be ignored.
	
- ### 5.7.1 Preserving the Rep Invariant
- hold for objects **returned** by constructors
- hold for when the method returns for this and any arguments of the type and also for returned objects of the type
``` java
//c.els !=null &&
//for all integers i, c.els[i] is an integer &&
//for all integers i, j, (0<=i<j<c.els.size =>
// c.els[i].intValue != c.els[j].intValue)
```
- Example, the `mul` operations preserves the invariant because the following conditions are met:
	- The invariant holds for this at the time of the call, it also hold for q if q is not null
	- If either this or q is the zero Poly, this is recognized and the proper rep constructed.
	- Otherwise, neither this nor q contains a zero in its high term. Therefore, the high term of the trms array in the returned Poly, which contains the product of the high terms of trms and q.trms, cannot be zero.

### 5.7.2 Reasoning about Operations
- consider the constructor, and all operations methods
- We are able to reason each operation independently, which is possible because of the `rep invariant`. 

### 5.7.3 Reasoning about the Abstract Level
- In this case, the reasoning is based only on the **type's specification**, we can ignore its implementation
- **abstract invariant**: the abstract analog ofthe rep invariant
	- e.g. For both vectors and arrays, we assumed their size was greater than or equal to zero, and less than the size, were in bounds. 
	- There are similar abstract invariants for sets and polynomials. For example, the size of an IntSet is alwasy greater than zero.