4.4 Design Issues
===

### Exception v.s. Errors
- Exceptions are not synonymous with errors
	- Exceptions are mechanism that allow the user to bring information to the caller, this information may concern error or may not
		- not error: search an element which is not in an array

### 4.4.1 When to Use Exceptions?
-  When the context of use is **local**, you need not use exceptions because you can easily verify that require clauses are satisfied by calls and that special results are used properly. 
- However, when the context of use is **nonlocal**, you should use exceptions instead of special results. And you should use exceptions instead of requires clauses **unless a requirement cannot be checked or is expensive to checked**. 
	- e.g. in searching an array, return -1(special results) if the element is not in the array (local), or throw exceptions(nonlocal)
	
### 4.4.2 Checked v.s. Unchecked Exceptions
#### Diff
- Checked Exceptions: must be handled in calling code or must be listed in the throws clauses of the procedure header; otherwise, there will be a compile-time error
	- Cons: if your code is certain not to cause one to be raised, you still must handle it! This is why many exceptions defined by Java are in fact unchecked.
- Unchecked Exceptions: will be implicitly propagated to the caller even if they aren't listed in the header. This means that procedures can raise unchecked exceptions even this isn't mentioned in their hander and specification. e.g. in the following code, `IndexOutOfBoundsException` might comes from `Arrays.search`, however the catch code will only deal with `x=y[n]`.
```
try{ x = y[n]; i = Arrays.search(z,x);}
catch(IndexOutOfBoundsException e){
	//handle IndexOutOfBoundsException from use of array y
}
//code here continue assuming problem has been fixed
```


#### How to choose?
- If you expect using code to avoid calls that raise the exception, the exception should be unchecked. 
	- This is the rational behind `IndexOutOfBoundsException`, arrays are supposed to be used primarily in for loops that control the indices and thus ensure that all calls on array methods have indices within bounds.
- Otherwise, exceptions should be checked. 
	-e.g. search an element that is not in an array

- Summary
	- You should use an unchecked exception only if you expect that users will usually write code that ensures the exception will not happen, because
		- There is a convenient and inexpensive way to avoid the exception
		- The context of use is local
	- Otherwise, you should use a checked exception
	