1.2 Abstraction
===========

### Advantage
- It allows use to forget information and consequently to treat things that are different as if they were the same.

### Example
- Problem: search upwards and search downwards to find whether there is an *e* exist in an array *a*
- A flaw design
``` java
found = a.isIn(e);
if(found) z = a.indexOf(e);
```
Disadvantage: it presumes that the designer of the programming language will build into the language most of the abstractions that users of the language will want. 
- Preferable design: design into the language mechanisms that allow programmers to construct their own abstractions as they need them. One common mechanism is the use of *procedure*. By separating procedure definition and invocation, a programming language makes two important methods of abstraction possible:
	- **abstraction by parameterization**: abstract from the identity of the data by replacing them with parameters. It generalize modules so that they an be used in more situations.
	- **abstraction by specification**: abstract from the implementation details. (how to module is implemented) to the behavior users can depend on(what the module does). It isolates from one another's implementations, we require only that a module's implementation supports the behavior being replied on.
	
### 1.2.1 Abstraction by Parameterization
- Advantage: through introducing parameters, it allows us to represent a potentially infinite set of different computations with a single program text that is an abstract of all of them. 
- Example
	- Assume we would like to compute `w*w + z*z`
	- Then we can write an abstract function:
	``` java
		int squares(int x, int y)
		{
			return x*x + y*y;
		}
	```
	- then we call `u=squares(w,z)`
	
### 1.2.2 Abstraction by Specification
- Advantage
	- Allow use to abstract from the computation described by the body of a procedure to the end that procedure was designed to accomplish.
- How
	- We do this by associating with each procedure a specification of its intended effect, i.e., we associate each procedure a comment that is sufficient informative to allow others to use that procedure without looking at its body
	- **Assertion**: a good way to write such comments is to use pairs of assertions. 
		- The *requires assertion(or precondition)* of a procedure specifies something that is assumed to be true on entry to the procedure. `#TODO`
		- The *effects assertion(or postcondition)* specifies something that is supposed to be true at the completion of any invocation of the procedure for which the precondition was satisfied. e.g. for `a/b`, if`b==0`, then the effect assertions permit us to say nothing.
- Two Rules on How to Use Specification
	- Rule 1: after the execution of the procedure, we can assume that the postcondition holds provided the precondition held when the call was made. i.e., users of the procedure need not bother looking at the body of the procedure in order to use it.
	- Rule 2: we can assume only those properties that can be inferred from the postcondition. i.e., the second rule make it clear that we are indeed abstracting from the procedure body, that is, omitting some supposedly irrelevant information. 
	
### 1.2.3 Other Abstraction*
- Procedural abstraction: allows use to introduce new operation
- Data abstraction: allows us to introduce new types of data objects
- Iteration abstraction: allows us to iterate over items in a collection without revealing details of how the items are obtained.
- Type hierarchy allows us to abstract individual data types to families of related types
