3.5 Designing Procedural Abstraction
====================================

### Properties of Procedure and Their Implementations
- Minimality
	- procedures should be designed to be minimally constraining, care should be taken to constrain details of the procedure's behavior only to the extent necessary.
	- one kind of detail that is almost certainly left undefined is the algorithm to be used in the implementation. 
- Underdetermined behavior
	- a procedure is underdetermined if for certain inputs its specification allows more than one possible result.
- Deterministic implementation
	- An implementation of a procedure is deterministic if for the same inputs, it always produces the same result. Implementations of underdetermined procedures are almost always deterministic.
- Generality
	- One specification is more general than another if it can handle a large class of input, often achieve by using parameters.

### Total and Partial Abstraction
- Definition
	- A procedure is total if the behavior is specified for all legal inputs; otherwise, it is partial. 
	- The specification of a partial procedure often contains a requires clauses.
- Partial procedures
	- Cons: less safe than total ones. Therefore, they should be used only when context of use is limited or when they enable a substantial benefit, such as better performance.
	- Pros: can be more efficient to implement, e.g. the constraint that array is sorted 
- Note
	- when possible, the implementation should check the constraint in the require clause and throw an exception if they are not satisfied.
	- of course, it doesn't make sense to check a constraint when the checking is very expensive.
	